## This application runs best on Ubuntu 18.04 because of its dependency, "Robocup Soccer Server". Therefore, if there are any problems of running this on other OS, please try to run this on Ubuntu 18.04.

## How to install and run

### Installing Soccerserver 
First, you need to install Soccerserver (version 16.0.1) by following the README.md file from this repository. Remember to extract the downloaded zipped folder to the path /home/<your-username> before running any commands:

https://github.com/rcsoccersim/rcssserver

To set up the Soccerserver configuration, open a new terminal from the root of this folder and run this:
```
cp -f ./scripts/server.conf ~/.rcssserver/
```
This will replace the server.conf file in your computer. Additionally, you will need to modify some parameters in the server.conf file:
```
nano ~/.rcssserver/server.conf

# Use Ctrl+W to find every "nh16" word in the file and replace it with your username, i.e. change "/home/nh16" to /home/<your-username>"
```

In addition, you will need to compile a C++ file in order to process the record generated by the soccerserver. You will need to install g++ first but if you have installed soccerserver, it should already be on your computer. Open a terminal from the root of this folder:
```
cp ./scripts/main.cpp ~/
cd ~
nano main.cpp   # Find all "nh16" and replace it with <your-username> then save it
g++ -o main main.cpp
```
If there is no error displayed then the compilation should be successful.

### Installing the teams needed for Soccerserver
Clone the repository soccer-file from link: https://github.com/romeoonlinesim/soccer-file.git

In your computer, copy the contents of folder soccer-file into you default Downloads folder, i.e. the path is
```
/home/<your-username>/Downloads
```
After doing it properly, you should see in your Downloads folder that there are 12 zipped files in form of tar.gz or tgz file as well as 12 team folders.

### Installing MongoDB
Then, you need to install MongoDB on your computer or server. If you already have it on your system, you can skip this step. For Linux system, it can be installed by following this guide:

https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/administration/install-on-linux/

**Important:** The port that MongoDB uses should be kept by default, which is 27017.

### Install npm and nodejs
If you already have npm version > 6.x.x and node version > 10.x.x in your computer then you may skip this step.
However, since our code is developed and deployed in npm version 7.20.3 and node 16.6.0, you may want to use this version.

The following steps will help you to install these specific versions of npm and node:

Install nvm:
```
curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.38.0/install.sh | bash
export NVM_DIR="$([ -z "${XDG_CONFIG_HOME-}" ] && printf %s "${HOME}/.nvm" || printf %s "${XDG_CONFIG_HOME}/nvm")"
[ -s "$NVM_DIR/nvm.sh" ] && \. "$NVM_DIR/nvm.sh" # This loads nvm

```

Install npm:
```
# To install a specific version (7.20.3) of npm:
npm install npm@7.20.3 -g
# To install latest version of npm:
nvm install-latest-npm
```

Install node:
```
# To install a specific version (6.16.0) of node:
nvm install 6.16.0
# To install the latest release version of node:
nvm install node
```

After finishing the above steps, you can check the version of npm and node in your computer:
```
npm --version  # expect 7.20.3
node --version  # expect 6.16.0
```

### Set up the environment variables
You should modify the .env file in the root of this folder. The content of it should look like this. You should replace "nh16" with your Ubuntu username:
```
CLIENT_HOMEPAGE=http://20.92.81.138
HOME_PATH=/home/nh16   # replace with /home/<your-username>
SOCCER_SERVER=/home/nh16/rcssserver-16.0.1/src/rcssserver   # replace with /home/<your-username>/rcssserver-16.0.1/src/rcssserver
COMPETITION_FOLDER=/home/nh16/comp   # replace with /home/<your-username>/comp
```

### Start the app in development environment



To start backend server:
Open a new terminal from the root of this folder, then run:
```
npm install
npm start
```

To start frontend app:
Open a new terminal from the root of this folder, then run:
```
cd client
npm install
npm start
```

If you do the above commands without any errors, the frontend interface could be accessed at http://localhost:5000 from your computer.
